Research what is a service? 
A component which runs in the background without direct interaction with the user. It has no user interface so it's not bound to the lifecycle of an activity. They run with a higher priority than inactive or invisible activities, therefore it's less likely for them to be terminated. They can be configured to restart if they get terminated for when the application has the resources to run it again.

The types of services in Android? 
Scheduled: You can use the JobScheduler API by registering jobs and specifying their requirements for network and timing.
Started: After it's started, a service can run in the background indefinitely, even if the component that started it is destroyed. Usually, a started service performs a single operation and does not return a result to the caller.
Bound: Below.

What is an Intent Service? 
A simple type of service that can be used to handle asynchronous work off the main thread by the way of Intent requests. Each intent is added to the IntentService's queue and handled sequentially. Intent Services are one of the simplest ways to offload chunks of processing off the UI thread of your application and into a remote work queue. You define your own service, package  with an intent with appropriate data you want to send for processing and start the intent service. You can send data back to the application by simplying returning the result as an intent object using a broadcast receiver.

Service vs Intent Service? 
Services can be used in tasks with no UI and shouldn't be too long, in order for them to be long you must use threads within it. 
IntentService runs on a seperate worker thread, and Service runs in the background but on the Main Thread of the application.
IntentService runs tasks in parallel while a Service could block the Main Thread of the application.
IntentService stops after all start requests have been handled but you must stop an actual Service yourself.

What is AIDL? 
Android Interface Definition Language; it allows you to define the programming interface that both the client and service agree upon in order to communicate with each other using interprocess communication. Normally on Android a process cannot normally access the memory of another process; they need to decompose their objects into primitives that the OS can understand, and direct the objects across that boundary for you.

What are bound services? 
A server in the client-server interface that allows components to bind to the service, send requests, receive responses and perform interprocess communication. They typically only runs while serving another applicaton component and not in the background indefintely.

What is the IBinder? 
The base interface for a remotable object, the core part of a lightweight remote procedure call mechanism designed for high performance when performing in-process and cross-process calls. It describes the abstract protocol for interacting with a remotable object. Shouldn't be implemented directly. Generally extend from Binder.

What is the Sync Adapter? 
Encapsulates the code for tasks that transfer data between the device and server. It's framework runs the code in the sync adapter component based on scheduling and triggers.

What are services used for? 
They are used for repetitive and potentially long running operations.

What is your favorite Android app?
Spotify, although I aim to create a better music streaming application. I dominately use an iPhone though.